Module number two, understanding how YouTube thinks.
This is the business logic behind the algorithm.
I'm sure you've heard the word algorithm a lot.
If you haven't, that's fine. But more than likely,
if you watch any YouTube videos on this stuff,
you know what the algorithm is.
You know exactly how complex people make it seem,
but there are a few truths about it.
So here's YouTube's core truth, the business reality,
because first of all, YouTube is a business.
Their goal, at the end of the day,
they don't care about the creators.
They don't care about, you know, oh,
let's make sure this creators get in their views and stuff.
They don't care. They care about making money.
And if that helps creators in a way, so be it.
But that's not why they do things right?
YouTube makes money primarily through ad revenue.
Their goal is simple. Have as many ads watched as possible
to maximize revenue.
So if this is their goal, which this is true, right?
We we narrowed it down their business,
their number one goal is to make money.
If they make money through ad revenue,
then their number one goal translates to YouTube's.
Number one goal is to have viewers on YouTube watch
as many ads as possible.
So in order for them to maximize this,
keep in mind YouTube's been around for like 17 or 18 years,
or I think like nine.
Wait, no, YouTube's been around for like 20 years.
Geez, it's been quite, quite some time.
And in that time you think YouTube
hasn't changed their algorithm?
Of course they have. And there's reason you all hear about
algorithm updates, things like that.
Um, if the algorithm was random, like a lot
of people think, uh, then guess what?
There wouldn't be updates. There wouldn't be hundreds
of employees working on YouTube's algorithm if they were
just making it random, right?
It would just be one random person
who set it back up back in 2006 and uh, pressed a button
and, and that's that based on that, the algorithm,
it just cannot be random.
I'm talking a 0% chance, 0% chance.
It is a carefully designed system.
It has been refined over literally two decades
with probably thousands
and thousands of different employees working
on it, perfecting it.
So now two things we've learned that already.
Super important. Number one, YouTube's goal is to show
as many ads as possible.
And number two, we know that if they wanna achieve
that goal, the algorithm can't be random,
otherwise they're leaving.
How many ads are being watched to a random number?
So those are two facts, algorithms, not random.
YouTube wants as many ads watch as possible.
Next thing, next truth, core truth. Oversaturation is real.
If YouTube already knows, viewers will watch lots
of ads on established creators videos.
Why would they risk testing your content in the same niche?
So a lot of people will go
and they'll see a huge niche like boring history for sleep
or something like that, which boring history for sleep.
They're just like two, three hour long videos where, uh,
it's just an AI narration talking about history
as if it's like reading from a history textbook almost.
And people will sleep to it.
And those channels make a lot of money.
A lot of inexperienced people
and a lot of people who maybe don't have any sort
of mentorship program, they will end up going
and just going into this
Boring history niche. 'cause
they see, look how many channels there are
that are doing well in this niche.
They find five different channels that are making 10
to a hundred thousand a month.
Look how many channels are doing good in this niche.
And they think that means that they can jump into
that niche, which makes, uh, just about zero sense.
And the reason that is, is
because if YouTube already knows, okay,
here are five creators in this niche,
we're just gonna give all,
let's say there's a hundred thousand viewers,
unique viewers in this niche
that watch this type of content.
They're just gonna distribute the a hundred thousand
viewers in whatever.
It doesn't have to be equal, of course,
but they'll just distribute it to just those five channels
because YouTube has enough data on these channels.
'cause they've been run running for 6, 7, 8, 9 months.
Um, and they'll be running for so long
that YouTube has enough data stack piled
and they can just know based on the data viewers that like
that type of content will watch the most amount
of ads from these channels.
Boom. Just like that YouTube closes off the niche.
You cannot get into it.
That's why a lot of people, this is something that a lot
of people that, uh, well, if you go
through this entire prerecorded,
I guess course you could call it, uh,
you'll learn exactly all the little details.
But it's just important to know
that you can't just jump into a niche
because somebody's having success, right?
YouTube will eventually close it off
because they know in this specific niche,
the audience already has a few channels
that we can send the audience to, um, where
certain viewer will watch as many ads as possible.
That's why Oversaturation is real.
Once there are too many channels in a niche,
YouTube has enough data to kind
of close off the niche from being entered.
Because if you make a boarding history channel right now,
YouTube just won't even send you any views.
Like, you'll literally get like less than 20 views
per video almost guaranteed.
Uh, unless of course a niche can repark up.
I'm not gonna say this one will probably won't,
but, um, I don't want somebody to quote me outta context.
So it it, it's possible,
but that's very low chance for most niches.
Um, next thing, since we know the algorithm exists
and it isn't random, what does this mean?
We can learn it. Because if it's not
random, we know two things, right?
We know it exists, obviously.
And number two, we've already determined it wasn't random
from the last few things I just said.
That means we can learn it, right?
Pretty simple equation exists isn't random.
We can learn it, right?
It doesn't mean it's easy, it just means that
if you do a lot of research like I have, you can learn it
and I'm going to teach you everything.
I've learned something that I have kind of, uh,
I feel like I kind of created this type of concept, um,
or at least this version of explain explaining
'cause a Adobe and I have learned a lot together
and almost everything I've learned except from the basics,
the basics I've learned from other creators when I first
started, of course at my level
with YouTube typically doesn't just learn on their own.
I'll be, I'll be honest, my first channel
I had some guidance with.
Um, but past that,
everything I learned in the past like three years has been
through trial and error. So a lot of the stuff
We teach here isn't just pulled from somebody else's
modules or pulled from YouTube.
This is stuff Avi
and I have tested on our own channels
to determine if they're true or not.
And I dunno, I just felt like, like saying that.
But anyways, the YouTube push order, this is
how YouTube pushes out contact, uh, content.
So once a creator
or you presses upload on a video,
how does it go to the viewer?
And this is gonna explain exactly how that happened.
Now sounds like simple process, uh, maybe to some,
but it's definitely not number one,
YouTube's gonna analyze the title of your video
to determine if they can kind
of guess which audience would best be suitable
based on your title, right?
Um, which is why the title is very important.
Now, people might be always talking about the thumbnail,
the A VD, but in reality, the way this push order works
is the things on the furthest
to the left are the most important.
Because if you title a video poorly
and YouTube doesn't understand which audience to push that
to, even if your thumbnail's great, no one will click on it.
And if no one clicks on it,
then obviously the the average watch time,
which if your video's 10 minutes long, uh,
and people watch it for average two minutes,
you have a two minute A VD,
then nobody's gonna even get the
chance to watch your video, right?
So this makes sense. Nobody will click on your thumbnail if
YouTube sends your video
to the wrong audience due your title.
And then nobody will even watch your
video if they don't click on it.
I think that one's a more obvious concept to grasp.
So that's why the title is actually the most important
thing, which is literally just text.
Uh, and in some niches the title is always the same.
So don't misunderstand what I'm saying.
A title can be easy to come up with for sure.
Um, and if you're in a niche where the title's easy
to come up with, great, uh,
and I might say niche a lot,
that's just gonna be the the category, uh,
in which you create your videos in.
We're gonna go over that more later.
And once again, I'm gonna cycle back to it's,
it's why it's good to watch this whole thing,
watch all the modules, and then watch all of them again,
because anything you didn't understand,
uh, you'll learn later.
But anyways, that's why the title's the most important.
Then the thumbnail, then the a VD.
So this doesn't mean the title is gonna be necessarily hard
to make, and in some niches the
thumbnail isn't hard to make.
This is just the importance order.
So even if the title is easy, you just need
to make sure you get it right, is what I'm trying to say.
So critical point, even if you have the best video ever
created, like let's say you created an Avengers level movie
as your YouTube video, right?
And you had the best thumbnail, right?
All the top 10 thumbnail artists in the world came
and spent a million years on your
project, on your thumbnail.
Even if your title's bad, no one's gonna see
that amazing thumbnail and then nobody's gonna click on the
video and then zero views.
So that's why the title is checked first
and that's why it's the most important thing.
So your title consists of two things.
Number one, your video topic and how you word that topic.
This is how the title is pretty much put together
because you know, can't create words at a thin air.
Your video has a topic that it's about,
and then the title itself is just how you word that topic.
If we were to go back here really
before the title is your topic.
So it'd really be number one's topic, number two, title,
number three, thumbnail number four, a VD.
Now, the reason I didn't write it like
That is done for a reason is
because really the most
important thing is actually the topic.
Uh, and this is why you might be like, well,
if the title can be easy in some
niches, then why does this matter?
And it's because, uh, in just about any niche,
the topic isn't necessarily gonna
be the easiest thing to come up with.
Uh, but wording the topic might be really easy.
Like let's say, um, you have, you're in a niche
where every single video on your channel is every blank
explained in 10 minutes, for example, right?
The title is super easy to come up with
'cause it's the same for every video.
Uh, but what makes it hard is
that you gotta find the right topic for your video, which
of course, anything you don't understand,
anything you don't know will be gone over.
Like I made sure that all
of this entire thing covers everything.
So most important for views is the video
topic and the video topic.
Well, there's, you can even split the video topic
to your ding, ding, ding channel niche, right?
Your channel niche,
because how can you come up with a topic without a niche?
If you don't have a niche,
then your topic could literally be anything.
So just an example, right?
If you're making, uh, a channel about how
to bake desserts, right?
That's not a faceless niche.
But either way, uh, to anybody watching this point,
I think it's also important to know that we don't just teach
faceless a Ada has a very large personal brand.
I have a personal brand, I have like
300,000 followers on Snapchat.
Ave has 500,000 on Snapchat. He has 300,000 on ig.
We each have had, um, personal brand YouTube channels.
Aada had one with like over a hundred thousand subs.
Mines at like 20,000 right now.
So, and realistically if you're even watching this,
you either came from Aada
or my personal brand, uh, talking about this community.
So this isn't really any teaching,
but it, it is important to know as well
that if you're interested in personal branding,
that's gonna be taught as well.
So if you wanna know about that stuff,
we know about that stuff too.
Anyways, lemme go back to my example.
Let's say your niche is a channel where you teach people how
to bake, uh, your video topic
pretty restricted as to what it could be.
You know how to bake an apple pie, how
to bake a cookie cake, right?
That's how you come up with your video topic.
But if your channel niche, for example,
is NBA basketball game highlights, right?
Then your video topic will never be how to bake an apple pie
or how to bake a cookie cake, right?
So this is why the channel niche, it kind of restricts
what your video topics can be.
It restricts the possibilities.
So now if we go back here, there's actually five things.
Number one on the far left
and there's a reason I, I want it
to be written like this on purpose
because the title is just broken down.
But it would be the channel niche is number one.
The topic of your video is number two,
the title is number three, uh, then thumbnails four
and then A VD is five.
But even though that's the importance order,
I think this, it's a very great thing.
I wrote this here because this is super important,
like drill this into your brain.
'cause this is one of those things
where if you don't understand this,
you'll never ever get monetized your title domino
and a VD or I could even expand this.
Your channel niche, your video topic, your title,
your thumbnail, and a VD,
all the five things I just mentioned should all be good.
You shouldn't be like, oh because of the order, I just,
just, my niche needs to be good
or just my niche in the topic needs to be good.
Everything, all the five things I just
mentioned should be good.
A good title gets impressions,
but a bad thumbnail halts them, right?
And impressions, just to put it simply,
impressions are going to be um,
when people see your thumbnail on their feed.
So if you're on the homepage of YouTube
or somebody's on an existing video
and you have the sidebar, um, those are
where impressions come up.
So if your thumbnail just pops up on someone's feed,
you actually get an impression.
Um, and that might be a little confusing
because well you might scroll past
a bunch of thumbnails all the time.
Like let's say you're on YouTube and
you're just scrolling the homepage.
Even if you're scrolling past a video,
you actually gave it an impression.
Um, and then you get views when people click on the video.
So let's see, say a hundred people got your thumbnail on
their homepage of YouTube.
Um, and then let's say even if they just scrolled by by it
for a second, you got a hundred people that scrolled by
or it was just on their screen.
At any point you got a hundred impressions.
If 10 people clicked on your video,
then you have a click-through rate of 10%, right?
You're just gonna do how many views you got
divided by the impressions.
Now YouTube automatically calculates that for you.
We're gonna talk about the click-through rate later,
otherwise known as CTR.
Um, like I said, you should have a notebook out,
so you should be writing this down.
I needed to explain that to really explain this.
A good title is going to give you impressions, right?
Realistically, if you have a good title,
you should get some like
what I call like test impressions, right?
YouTube's gonna initially, if your title is good
and they identify the topic
and niche to be good, YouTube will push out either a few
hundred or a few thousand impressions to your video
based on the CTR based on
how many people click on the video.
They're going to then determine should we push even more.
So if you have a good title, you get a few hundred
to a few thousand impressions,
but if your click through rate is really low, like two 3%
for example, then what's gonna end up happening is YouTube's
gonna stop giving out impressions.
So it's gonna give you like few hundred
or a few thousand impressions.
Um, and if the CTR is bad, boom your impressions halt
and that's that for that video.
That video's not gonna get more views in a lot of cases.
Um, you could just change your thumbnail to fix that.
Or let's say a video's getting no impressions, uh, at all.
That means that they thought the title was bad.
'cause that's the first step, right?
So if your video's getting no impressions,
you could always potentially change the title
to get more impressions.
Of course, if your niche is just bad, then no matter
how you change the title, it doesn't matter.
'cause the niche is the first step. The title is gonna push
out the first few hundred or few thousand impressions.
And if the thumbnail's bad impressions stop,
if thumbnail is good, they'll push you out to somewhere
between five to six figures of impressions.
So tens of thousands to even maybe hundreds
of thousands of impressions.
Um, typically somewhere between 10
and a hundred thousand impressions is what they'll give you.
If you have a good thumbnail, the better your thumbnail is,
of course the more impressions and if the thumbnail is good.
And then if the A VD, which is average viewer duration,
like I said before, if your video is 10 minutes long
and the average person's watching it for three minutes,
then your a VD is three minutes, right?
So some people could be watching for 10 seconds,
some people could watch the full 10 minutes,
some people are watching four minutes
and that averages out to three minutes.
Um, then that's what your A VD is pretty much.
So if your A VD is good and we'll talk about what good A VD
and what good CTR is later.
So don't worry about that. You might be like,
oh, what's a good CTR?
What's a bad CTR? What's a good bad A VD?
Don't worry about that. I
guarantee you everything will be covered.
You might have questions. Um,
and if you do, you can always write them down, uh,
wherever you're taking notes because of course
we're hosting calls every week.
Uh, and if you're in this inner circle, then you also have
that one call a week plus an
additional call every single day.
But at the end of the day, good title,
once you have a good title, you get your test impressions,
good thumbnail continues more test impressions,
but at a larger scale.
And then if you have a good A VD, then you'll get even more.
And at this point, this is when YouTube like
fully pushes out your video.
When you see videos that have like a hundred, like tens
of thousands of views or hundreds of thousands,
especially like if it's hundreds of thousands for sure, um,
you probably have a good A
VD, otherwise you're not getting that.
But if you're in millions, like you have a really good A VD.
So pretty much the A VD is kind of what gives you
that infinite view cap.
And this is how like someone like, uh, Mr.
Beast will get like 300 million views on a single video.
It's 'cause his a VD is probably absurdly high.
Really what's gonna happen is, like I said,
the order's gonna be, if the title's good,
you get your first test impressions, uh,
thumbnail CT R is good,
you get a larger scale of test impressions.
And then if the A VD is good,
you'll continue getting impressions
and the way that you'll stop getting views.
'cause you might be like, oh, why
don't I just get infinite views?
And if I have a good A VD, it's
because you two will push out impressions to an audience.
And once they fill out this audience of people
that are similar to each other, if the a VD is still good,
then they'll push it out to a new audience.
Uh, and if that new audience over time,
that new audience will actually become worse and worse
because they're like, okay,
well everybody in this audience liked it.
We're gonna try this audience.
That's kind of similar but not exactly the same.
And eventually, of course, most videos will end up,
or every video technically ends up finally hitting the
maximum audience that would watch that type of video,
which is why Mr.
Bees views are like 200, 300 million on a single video.
But they're not infinite, right?
It doesn't, they're not infinite use.
And that's gonna be it for module number two
and keep mind, it's okay to take breaks
because realistically you don't need
to watch this whole thing in one day
because if you do that, you might get burnt out.
So I'm gonna take a stop, little stop here
and say, you know, if you're actually taking notes
and planning on watching this whole thing two, three times,
for example, all the way through, then you know it's fine
to split up, you know, kind of the work or watching this.
But if you wanna do this all in one
day, that's totally fine too.
Don't get me wrong, this isn't a suggestion to split it up.
It's more so just don't feel like you
gotta speed through this.
Anyways, I'll see you in module three. Thanks.